---
layout: post
title: The Future
description: Mission
image: assets/images/pic06.jpg
---

Evolutionary basis of consciousness and Self awareness:
Albert Einstein famously said, “Everything should be made as simple as possible, but not simpler.” The human body is estimated to have about 40 to 50 trillion cells, but it is estimated that the human brain alone has 400 to 500 trillion synapses. That is almost 10 times as many cells that are there in the entire body. With that in mind, I wouldn't expect this enormous complexity of synapses and connectivity patterns to be that simple or easy or easy puzzle to solve. But at the same time, we have to keep in mind that evolution has time and again relied on simple mathematical patterns and simple algorithms to change and adapt itself. We might need complex mathematical representations to represent and solve complex problems and to build intuition of the universe, but that doesn't mean nature in itself is complex. Physics, biology and evolution. Inherently are simple processes, and it would be wise to build upon these simple processes when we are trying to mimic anything in any one of these fields.
Throughout the course of evolution, life on Earth has followed a path of adaptation and survival, driven by the imperative to persist and replicate. The journey began with the emergence of molecules forming and breaking bonds, a fundamental process that laid the foundation for all life. However, as life grew more complex, so did the need for organisms to understand and navigate their environments effectively. The organism that best understood its environment had the best chance of survival. This necessity gave rise to the evolution of neural networks, which ultimately culminated in the human brain—a remarkable testament to the power of neural networks as universal function approximators.

The early stages of evolution witnessed the development of neurons, as mechanisms of connectivity between different functional parts of an organism. These neurons allowed for the transmission of information, enabling early life forms to respond to environmental stimuli and increase their chances of survival. An entity that possessed the ability to better comprehend and process its surroundings held a significant advantage in the struggle for survival. This advantage became a driving force for the evolution of increasingly complex neural networks.

